# Davis-Putnam-Logemann-Loveland (DPLL) solver #

The solver uses a proposition in conjunctive normal form to designate whether 
or not it is satisfiable by assigning boolean values to each variable.
ANDs are implicit in the proposition between each of the clauses. 
ORs are implicit in between Literals in the Clauses.
All literals with the same variable name have the same underlying boolean
value, but may have different external values depending on their signs.
If the external value of a unit clause is True it may be removed from the proposition
because it can no longer cause it to be unsatisfiable. If the external value of a 
Literal contained within a Clause is True, the status of the Clause is therefore True 
and the Clause may be removed from the proposition because it can no longer cause the 
proposition to be unsatisfiable. If the external value of a Literal contained within a 
Clause is False, the Literal may be removed from the Clause because it can no longer 
contribute to the Clause being True. A Clause containing a single Literal becomes a 
unit clause.
The proposition is solved by recursion using the unit clause heuristic, 
the pure clause heuristic, and guess and check.
The unit clause heuristic is used to set all unit clauses so their external 
values are True, then they are removed from the proposition, and the clauses are 
seached for any Literals with the same variable name. If the found Literal has the 
same sign as the unit clause, the Clause containing it is removed; if it has the 
opposite sign, it is removed from the Clause. 
The pure clause heuristic is used to find Literals that have the same sign within 
all the Clauses that hold them. Their value is set such that their external values are True,
and the Clauses are removed from the proposition.
If the proposition only contains clauses with the external value of True, or is an empty 
proposition, it is deemed satisfiable; else it is deemed unsatisfiable.
If the proposition contains two unit clauses with the same variable name but opposite signs, 
it is unsatisfiable by contradiction.
The variable names and their values are tracked as the solver progresses so that if it is 
satisfiable they may be returned.

Davis-Putnam-Logemann-Loveland (DPLL) algorithm